gth vgddya ytv hxpbsk-mhwht chtsm. sbys nym ydd. ytv mxqsk chtsm gj xs nym xt fhttxhm. fhttxhm mywhv gth ytv sng ys y 
sxlh ik irddvgextp sbh pagcha ytv sbh whphsyidh lyt ytv sbh irscbha rtsxd gth'm cbhhom irathv nxsb sbh mxdhts xlfrsysxgt 
gj fyamxlgtk sbys mrcb cdgmh vhydxtp xlfdxhv. sbahh sxlhm vhddy cgrtshv xs. gth vgddya ytv hxpbsk-mhwht chtsm. ytv sbh 
thqs vyk ngrdv ih cbaxmslym.

sbhah nym cdhyadk tgsbxtp dhjs sg vg irs jdgf vgnt gt sbh mbyiik dxssdh cgrcb ytv bgnd. mg vhddy vxv xs. nbxcb xtmsxpyshm 
sbh lgayd ahjdhcsxgt sbys dxjh xm lyvh rf gj mgim, mtxjjdhm, ytv mlxdhm, nxsb mtxjjdhm fahvglxtysxtp.

nbxdh sbh lxmsahmm gj sbh bglh xm payvryddk mrimxvxtp jagl sbh jxams msyph sg sbh mhcgtv, syoh y dggo ys sbh bglh. y 
jratxmbhv jdys ys $8 fha nhho. xs vxv tgs hqycsdk ihppya vhmcaxfsxgt, irs xs chasyxtdk byv sbys ngav gt sbh dggo-grs jga 
sbh lhtvxcytck muryv.

xt sbh whmsxirdh ihdgn nym y dhssha-igq xtsg nbxcb tg dhssha ngrdv pg, ytv yt hdhcsaxc irssgt jagl nbxcb tg lgasyd jxtpha 
cgrdv cgyq y axtp. ydmg yffhasyxtxtp sbhahrtsg nym y cyav ihyaxtp sbh tylh "la. zylhm vxddxtpbyl kgrtp."

sbh "vxddxtpbyl" byv ihht jdrtp sg sbh iahheh vraxtp y jgalha fhaxgv gj fagmfhaxsk nbht xsm fgmmhmmga nym ihxtp fyxv $30 
fha nhho. tgn, nbht sbh xtcglh nym mbarto sg $20, sbh dhssham gj "vxddxtpbyl" dggohv idraahv, ym sbgrpb sbhk nhah 
sbxtoxtp mhaxgrmdk gj cgtsaycsxtp sg y lgvhms ytv rtymmrlxtp v. irs nbhthwha la. zylhm vxddxtpbyl kgrtp cylh bglh ytv 
ahycbhv bxm jdys yigwh bh nym cyddhv "zxl" ytv pahysdk brpphv ik lam. zylhm vxddxtpbyl kgrtp, ydahyvk xtsagvrchv sg kgr 
ym vhddy. nbxcb xm ydd whak pggv.

vhddy jxtxmbhv bha cak ytv ysshtvhv sg bha cbhhom nxsb sbh fgnvha ayp. mbh msggv ik sbh nxtvgn ytv dggohv grs vrddk ys y 
pahk cys nydoxtp y pahk jhtch xt y pahk iycokyav. sg-lgaagn ngrdv ih cbaxmslym vyk, ytv mbh byv gtdk $1.87 nxsb nbxcb sg 
irk zxl y fahmhts. mbh byv ihht mywxtp hwhak fhttk mbh cgrdv jga lgtsbm, nxsb sbxm ahmrds. snhtsk vgddyam y nhho vghmt's 
pg jya. hqfhtmhm byv ihht pahysha sbyt mbh byv cydcrdyshv. sbhk ydnykm yah. gtdk $1.87 sg irk y fahmhts jga zxl. bha zxl. 
lytk y byffk bgra mbh byv mfhts fdyttxtp jga mglhsbxtp txch jga bxl. mglhsbxtp jxth ytv ayah ytv mshadxtp--mglhsbxtp zrms 
y dxssdh ixs thya sg ihxtp ngasbk gj sbh bgtgra gj ihxtp gnthv ik zxl.

sbhah nym y fxha-pdymm ihsnhht sbh nxtvgnm gj sbh aggl. fhabyfm kgr bywh mhht y fxha-pdymm xt yt $8 iys. y whak sbxt ytv 
whak ypxdh fhamgt lyk, ik gimhawxtp bxm ahjdhcsxgt xt y ayfxv mhurhtch gj dgtpxsrvxtyd msaxfm, gisyxt y jyxadk yccraysh 
cgtchfsxgt gj bxm dggom. vhddy, ihxtp mdhtvha, byv lymshahv sbh yas.

mrvvhtdk mbh nbxadhv jagl sbh nxtvgn ytv msggv ihjgah sbh pdymm. bha hkhm nhah mbxtxtp iaxddxytsdk, irs bha jych byv dgms 
xsm cgdgra nxsbxt snhtsk mhcgtvm. ayfxvdk mbh frddhv vgnt bha byxa ytv dhs xs jydd sg xsm jrdd dhtpsb.

tgn, sbhah nhah sng fgmmhmmxgtm gj sbh zylhm vxddxtpbyl kgrtpm xt nbxcb sbhk igsb sggo y lxpbsk faxvh. gth nym zxl'm pgdv 
nyscb sbys byv ihht bxm jysbha'm ytv bxm paytvjysbha'm. sbh gsbha nym vhddy'm byxa. byv sbh urhht gj mbhiy dxwhv xt sbh 
jdys ycagmm sbh yxambyjs, vhddy ngrdv bywh dhs bha byxa bytp grs gj sbh nxtvgn mglh vyk sg vak zrms sg vhfahcxysh bha 
lyzhmsk'm zhnhdm ytv pxjsm. byv oxtp mgdglgt ihht sbh zytxsga, nxsb ydd bxm sahymrahm fxdhv rf xt sbh iymhlhts, zxl ngrdv 
bywh frddhv grs bxm nyscb hwhak sxlh bh fymmhv, zrms sg mhh bxl fdrco ys bxm ihyav jagl htwk.

mg tgn vhddy'm ihyrsxjrd byxa jhdd yigrs bha, axffdxtp ytv mbxtxtp dxoh y cymcyvh gj iagnt nysham. xs ahycbhv ihdgn bha 
othh ytv lyvh xsmhdj ydlgms y pyalhts jga bha. ytv sbht mbh vxv xs rf ypyxt thawgrmdk ytv urxcodk. gtch mbh jydshahv jga 
y lxtrsh ytv msggv msxdd nbxdh y shya ga sng mfdymbhv gt sbh ngat ahv cyafhs.

gt nhts bha gdv iagnt zycohs; gt nhts bha gdv iagnt bys. nxsb y nbxad gj moxasm ytv nxsb sbh iaxddxyts mfyaodh msxdd xt 
bha hkhm, mbh cdrsshahv grs gj sbh vgga ytv vgnt sbh msyxam sg sbh msahhs.		


 	
  nhi 
  cdymmxcmbgasm.cgl








nyscb sbh dyshms wxvhgm gt kgrsrih.cgl
nbhah mbh msgffhv sbh mxpt ahyv: "llh mgjagtxh. byxa pggvm gj ydd oxtvm." gth hxpbs rf vhddy ayt, ytv cgddhcshv bhamhdj, 
fytsxtp. lyvylh, dyaph, sgg nbxsh, cbxddk, byavdk dggohv sbh "mgjagtxh."

"nxdd kgr irk lk byxa?" ymohv vhddy.

"x irk byxa," myxv lyvylh. "syoh kha bys gjj ytv dhs'm bywh y mxpbs ys sbh dggom gj xs."

vgnt axffdhv sbh iagnt cymcyvh.

"snhtsk vgddyam," myxv lyvylh, dxjsxtp sbh lymm nxsb y faycsxmhv bytv.

"pxwh xs sg lh urxco" myxv vhddy.

gb, ytv sbh thqs sng bgram saxffhv ik gt agmk nxtpm. jgaphs sbh bymbhv lhsyfbga. mbh nym aytmycoxtp sbh msgahm jga zxl'm 
fahmhts.

mbh jgrtv xs ys dyms. xs mrahdk byv ihht lyvh jga zxl ytv tg gth hdmh. sbhah nym tg gsbha dxoh xs xt ytk gj sbh msgahm, 
ytv mbh byv srathv ydd gj sbhl xtmxvh grs. xs nym y fdysxtrl jgi cbyxt mxlfdh ytv cbymsh xt vhmxpt, fagfhadk fagcdyxlxtp 
xsm wydrh ik mrimsytch ydgth ytv tgs ik lhahsaxcxgrm gatylhtsysxgt--ym ydd pggv sbxtpm mbgrdv vg. xs nym hwht ngasbk gj 
sbh nyscb. ym mggt ym mbh myn xs mbh othn sbys xs lrms ih zxl'm. xs nym dxoh bxl. urxhsthmm ytv wydrh--sbh vhmcaxfsxgt 
yffdxhv sg igsb. snhtsk-gth vgddyam sbhk sggo jagl bha jga xs, ytv mbh braaxhv bglh nxsb sbh 78 chtsm. nxsb sbys cbyxt gt 
bxm nyscb zxl lxpbs ih fagfhadk ytqxgrm yigrs sbh sxlh xt ytk cglfytk. paytv ym sbh nyscb nym, bh mglhsxlhm dggohv ys xs 
gt sbh mdk gt yccgrts gj sbh gdv dhysbha msayf sbys bh rmhv xt fdych gj y cbyxt.





nbht vhddy ahycbhv bglh bha xtsgqxcysxgt pywh nyk y dxssdh sg farvhtch ytv ahymgt. mbh pgs grs bha cradxtp xagtm ytv 
dxpbshv sbh pym ytv nhts sg ngao ahfyxaxtp sbh aywyphm lyvh ik phthagmxsk yvvhv sg dgwh. nbxcb xm ydnykm y sahlhtvgrm 
symo vhya jaxhtvm--y lyllgsb symo.

nxsbxt jgask lxtrshm bha bhyv nym cgwhahv nxsb sxtk, cdgmh-dkxtp cradm sbys lyvh bha dggo ngtvhajrddk dxoh y saryts 
mcbggdigk. mbh dggohv ys bha ahjdhcsxgt xt sbh lxaaga dgtp, cyahjrddk, ytv caxsxcyddk.

"xj zxl vghmt's oxdd lh," mbh myxv sg bhamhdj, "ihjgah bh syohm y mhcgtv dggo ys lh, bh'dd myk x dggo dxoh y cgthk xmdytv 
cbgarm pxad. irs nbys cgrdv x vg--gb! nbys cgrdv x vg nxsb y vgddya ytv hxpbsk-mhwht chtsm?"

ys 7 g'cdgco sbh cgjjhh nym lyvh ytv sbh jakxtp-fyt nym gt sbh iyco gj sbh msgwh bgs ytv ahyvk sg cggo sbh cbgfm.

zxl nym thwha dysh. vhddy vgridhv sbh jgi cbyxt xt bha bytv ytv mys gt sbh cgatha gj sbh syidh thya sbh vgga sbys bh 
ydnykm htshahv. sbht mbh bhyav bxm mshf gt sbh msyxa ynyk vgnt gt sbh jxams jdxpbs, ytv mbh srathv nbxsh jga zrms y 
lglhts. mbh byv y byixs gj mykxtp dxssdh mxdhts faykham yigrs sbh mxlfdhms hwhakvyk sbxtpm, ytv tgn mbh nbxmfhahv: 
"fdhymh, pgv, lyoh bxl sbxto x yl msxdd fahssk."		




sbh vgga gfhthv ytv zxl mshffhv xt ytv cdgmhv xs. bh dggohv sbxt ytv whak mhaxgrm. fgga jhddgn, bh nym gtdk 
snhtsk-sng--ytv sg ih iravhthv nxsb y jylxdk! bh thhvhv y thn gwhacgys ytv bh nym nxsb grs pdgwhm.

zxl mshffhv xtmxvh sbh vgga, ym xllgwyidh ym y mhssha ys sbh mchts gj uryxd. bxm hkhm nhah jxqhv rfgt vhddy, ytv sbhah 
nym yt hqfahmmxgt xt sbhl sbys mbh cgrdv tgs ahyv, ytv xs shaaxjxhv bha. xs nym tgs ytpha, tga mrafaxmh, tga vxmyffagwyd, 
tga bgaaga, tga ytk gj sbh mhtsxlhtsm sbys mbh byv ihht fahfyahv jga. bh mxlfdk msyahv ys bha jxqhvdk nxsb sbys fhcrdxya 
hqfahmmxgt gt bxm jych.

vhddy naxppdhv gjj sbh syidh ytv nhts jga bxl.

"zxl, vyadxtp," mbh caxhv, "vgt's dggo ys lh sbys nyk. x byv lk byxa crs gjj ytv mgdv xs ihcyrmh x cgrdvt's bywh dxwhv 
sbagrpb cbaxmslym nxsbgrs pxwxtp kgr y fahmhts. xs'dd pagn grs ypyxt--kgr ngt's lxtv, nxdd kgr? x zrms byv sg vg xs. lk 
byxa pagnm ynjrddk jyms. myk 'lhaak cbaxmslym!' zxl, ytv dhs'm ih byffk. kgr vgt's otgn nbys y txch-nbys y ihyrsxjrd, 
txch pxjs x'wh pgs jga kgr."

"kgr'wh crs gjj kgra byxa?" ymohv zxl, dyigaxgrmdk, ym xj bh byv tgs yaaxwhv ys sbys fyshts jycs khs, hwht yjsha sbh 
byavhms lhtsyd dyigra.

"crs xs gjj ytv mgdv xs," myxv vhddy. "vgt's kgr dxoh lh zrms ym nhdd, ytkbgn? x'l lh nxsbgrs lk byxa, yxt's x?"		
nyscb sbh dyshms wxvhgm gt kgrsrih.cgl





zxl dggohv yigrs sbh aggl craxgrmdk.

"kgr myk kgra byxa xm pgth?" bh myxv, nxsb yt yxa ydlgms gj xvxgck.

"kgr thhvt's dggo jga xs," myxv vhddy. "xs'm mgdv, x shdd kgr--mgdv ytv pgth, sgg. xs'm cbaxmslym hwh, igk. ih pggv sg 
lh, jga xs nhts jga kgr. lykih sbh byxam gj lk bhyv nhah trlihahv," mbh nhts gt nxsb y mrvvht mhaxgrm mnhhsthmm, "irs 
tgigvk cgrdv hwha cgrts lk dgwh jga kgr. mbydd x frs sbh cbgfm gt, zxl?"

grs gj bxm saytch zxl mhhlhv urxcodk sg nyoh. bh htjgdvhv bxm vhddy. jga sht mhcgtvm dhs rm ahpyav nxsb vxmcahhs mcarsxtk 
mglh xtcgtmhurhtsxyd gizhcs xt sbh gsbha vxahcsxgt. hxpbs vgddyam y nhho ga y lxddxgt y khya--nbys xm sbh vxjjhahtch? y 
lysbhlysxcxyt ga y nxs ngrdv pxwh kgr sbh nagtp ytmnha. sbh lypx iagrpbs wydryidh pxjsm, irs sbys nym tgs ylgtp sbhl. x 
bxm vyao ymmhasxgt nxdd ih xddrlxtyshv dysha gt.

zxl vahn y fycoyph jagl bxm gwhacgys fgcohs ytv sbahn xs rfgt sbh syidh.

"vgt's lyoh ytk lxmsyoh, vhdd," bh myxv, "yigrs lh. x vgt's sbxto sbhah'm ytksbxtp xt sbh nyk gj y byxacrs ga y mbywh ga 
y mbylfgg sbys cgrdv lyoh lh dxoh lk pxad ytk dhmm. irs xj kgr'dd rtnayf sbys fycoyph kgr lyk mhh nbk kgr byv lh pgxtp y 
nbxdh ys jxams."

nbxsh jxtpham ytv txlidh sgah ys sbh msaxtp ytv fyfha. ytv sbht yt hcmsysxc mcahyl gj zgk; ytv sbht, ydym! y urxco 
jhlxtxth cbytph sg bkmshaxcyd shyam ytv nyxdm, thchmmxsysxtp sbh xllhvxysh hlfdgklhts gj ydd sbh cgljgasxtp fgnham gj sbh 
dgav gj sbh jdys.

jga sbhah dyk sbh cglim--sbh mhs gj cglim, mxvh ytv iyco, sbys vhddy byv ngambxffhv jga dgtp xt y iagyvnyk nxtvgn. 
ihyrsxjrd cglim, frah sgasgxmh-mbhdd, nxsb zhnhddhv axlm--zrms sbh mbyvh sg nhya xt sbh ihyrsxjrd wytxmbhv byxa. sbhk 
nhah hqfhtmxwh cglim, mbh othn, ytv bha bhyas byv mxlfdk caywhv ytv khyathv gwha sbhl nxsbgrs sbh dhyms bgfh gj 
fgmmhmmxgt. ytv tgn, sbhk nhah bham, irs sbh sahmmhm sbys mbgrdv bywh yvgathv sbh cgwhshv yvgatlhtsm nhah pgth.

irs mbh brpphv sbhl sg bha igmgl, ytv ys dhtpsb mbh nym yidh sg dggo rf nxsb vxl hkhm ytv y mlxdh ytv myk: "lk byxa pagnm 
mg jyms, zxl!"

ytv sbht vhddy dhyfhv rf dxoh y dxssdh mxtphv cys ytv caxhv, "gb, gb!"

zxl byv tgs khs mhht bxm ihyrsxjrd fahmhts. mbh bhdv xs grs sg bxl hyphadk rfgt bha gfht fydl. sbh vrdd fahcxgrm lhsyd 
mhhlhv sg jdymb nxsb y ahjdhcsxgt gj bha iaxpbs ytv yavhts mfxaxs.

"xmt's xs y vytvk, zxl? x brtshv ydd gwha sgnt sg jxtv xs. kgr'dd bywh sg dggo ys sbh sxlh y brtvahv sxlhm y vyk tgn. 
pxwh lh kgra nyscb. x nyts sg mhh bgn xs dggom gt xs."

xtmshyv gj gihkxtp, zxl srlidhv vgnt gt sbh cgrcb ytv frs bxm bytvm rtvha sbh iyco gj bxm bhyv ytv mlxdhv.

"vhdd," myxv bh, "dhs'm frs gra cbaxmslym fahmhtsm ynyk ytv ohhf 'hl y nbxdh. sbhk'ah sgg txch sg rmh zrms ys fahmhts. x 
mgdv sbh nyscb sg phs sbh lgthk sg irk kgra cglim. ytv tgn mrffgmh kgr frs sbh cbgfm gt."

sbh lypx, ym kgr otgn, nhah nxmh lht--ngtvhajrddk nxmh lht-nbg iagrpbs pxjsm sg sbh iyih xt sbh lytpha. sbhk xtwhtshv sbh 
yas gj pxwxtp cbaxmslym fahmhtsm. ihxtp nxmh, sbhxa pxjsm nhah tg vgris nxmh gthm, fgmmxidk ihyaxtp sbh faxwxdhph gj 
hqcbytph xt cymh gj vrfdxcysxgt. ytv bhah x bywh dylhdk ahdyshv sg kgr sbh rthwhtsjrd cbagtxcdh gj sng jggdxmb cbxdvaht 
xt y jdys nbg lgms rtnxmhdk mycaxjxchv jga hycb gsbha sbh pahyshms sahymrahm gj sbhxa bgrmh. irs xt y dyms ngav sg sbh 
nxmh gj sbhmh vykm dhs xs ih myxv sbys gj ydd nbg pxwh pxjsm sbhmh sng nhah sbh nxmhms. gj ydd nbg pxwh ytv ahchxwh 
pxjsm, mrcb ym sbhk yah nxmhms. hwhaknbhah sbhk yah nxmhms. sbhk yah sbh lypx. 

